So why do you care so much about other individuals living their lives?
那你為什麼這麼在意別別人怎麼過他們的生活？
Do you have something up your ass or something?
你是屁股屁股裡塞了什麼東西嗎？(你是不是是不是是哪裡不爽啊？)
Well, I could throw that right back to you.
嗯，我也可以原句奉還給你。
Why do you care so much about what I have to say?
那你為什麼這麼在意我說什麼？
Because you're affecting other people's rights.
因為你正在影響別人的權利。
You're taking away people's choices.
你在剝奪人們的選擇權。
You are hurting people.
你正在傷害別人。
What rights am I taking away exactly?
我到底拿走了哪些權利？
You're trying to take away gender-affirming care for individuals.
你正在試圖剝奪個人的性別肯認醫療照護。
You are hurting people.
你正在傷害人們。
Got it. So what is a woman?
了解，那麼，什麼是女人？
What is a woman?
什麼是女人？
It's a gender.
是一種性別。
Sex is different.
生理性别是不同。
Sex is different from gender.
生理性别和性別認同是不一樣的。
So can anyone be a woman?
那任何人都可以是女人嗎？
Yes.
可以。
At what point do you know you're looking at a woman?
那你在什麼時候能知道自己看到的是一位女人？
Doesn't matter when you are looking at a woman.
不管什麼時候看到女人都沒關係。
You don't have to look at a woman and immediately tell.
你不需要一眼就判斷出對方是不是女人。
Can you tell looking at a baby what gender they are without looking at their privates?
你能只看著一個嬰兒、不看他們的私處就知道性別嗎？
Tell me that. Sometimes.
你告訴我吧。有時候可以。
Sometimes? What about that baby is different?
有時候嗎？那個嬰兒到底有什麼不一樣的？
But hold on. By the time they're six months old, you can actually tell.
但等一下，到他們六個月大時，其實你就能分辨出來。
A young boy tends to gravitate more towards balls and remotes.
小男孩往往會更傾向去拿球或遙控器。
That's because of gender affirming.
那是因為性別認同的影響。
That is convincing individuals at a young age.
那是在很小的時候就灌輸的觀念。
You are socializing, putting them in situations where they want certain different things.
你是在社會化、把他們放進某種環境裡，讓他們產生特定的偏好。
Let's look at.
我們來看看…
So let's say you were a little kid and your parents taught you to like pink.
假設你是個小孩，你的父母教你喜歡粉紅色。
Pink actually used to be a male color instead of blue.
粉紅色其實以前被認為是男性的顏色，而不是藍色。
In what world?
哪個世界是這樣的？
So you say that I'm here to take people's rights away. Yes.
所以你說我來這裡是在剝奪人們的權利？沒錯。
Yes, because you are affecting the LGBT.
對，因為你正在影響LGBT。(LGBT：同性戀、雙性戀與跨性別族群)
You are affecting women's rights.
你也在影響女性的權利。
If I was pregnant, oh, wait, let's go back to this.
如果我懷孕了，哦，等等，讓我們回到這個話題。
Abortion is anything.
墮胎可以是任何事。
If I had a cyst on my uterus, that would be considered an abortion.
如果我子宮裡長了一個囊腫，那也算是墮胎。
No, it's not.
不，那不是。
Yes, it is. Look at, okay, anything that is evolving the uterus.
是，它就是。看看，好吧，凡是在子宮裡發育的都是。
Well, no, in order for it to be an abortion, it must be a human life.
不，若要算是墮胎，它一定是涉及人類生命。
No, anything that is evolving the uterus and you have to get rid of it, is considered abortion.
不，凡是在子宮裡發育的、而且必須移除的東西，都算墮胎。
No, that's not how it works.
不，那不是這樣運作的。
So again, you say I'm here to take rights away. Yes.
所以你又說，我是來剝奪權利？是的，沒錯。
Do you agree life is a right?
你同意生命是一項權利嗎？
I feel like if it's a clump of cells, then it's not life.
我覺得如果那只是一團細胞，那就不算生命。
No, no, no, but let's go back. Do you think every human being has a right to life?
不，不、不，但讓我回到問題核心。你認為每個人都應該有生存權嗎？
Depending on how many weeks, but let's get it. So wait, hold on.
要看懷孕週數啦，但好，我們來談這個。那麼等一下，先等等。
Who's trying to take rights away? No. No.
誰才是在剝奪權利？不是我。不是。
I want to protect the rights of all human beings.
我想要保護所有人類的權利。
Who's trying to take rights away, exactly?
那誰才是真正在剝奪權利？
When is it a human being in your mind?
在你看來，什麼時候才算是人？
Well, it's not even on my mind.
嗯，我根本沒想過這問題。
Human development objectively begins at conception.
從科學上看，人類發展在受孕那一刻就開始。
At conception? So even if I had a miscarriage, what are you going to say about that?
在受孕那一刻？那如果我流產了，你要怎麼看待這件事？
It's a tragedy. It's a tragedy? Yes.
那是場悲劇。是悲劇嗎？是的。
Okay, then let's talk about like, what if it's affecting the woman or anybody who is pregnant in this situation?
好吧，那我們來談談，比如說，如果這件事影響到那位女性，或任何在這種情況下懷孕的人，該怎麼辦？
What if they're going to die and they have to get an abortion?
如果她們快要死了，必須得墮胎怎麼辦？
That's the only way they're going to live.
那是她們唯一能活下來的方式。
Are they going to be over?
那她們就完了嗎？
Well, hold on. Just so we're clear, that's only a couple thou.
好，等一下。要說清楚，那種情況一年只有幾千例。
That's only a couple 1000 cases a year.
一年只有幾千個案例而已。
Have you seen how many individuals have already died because they haven't been able to get abortion care?
你知道已經有多少人因為無法取得墮胎醫療而死了嗎？
Abortion in the life of the mother can be put aside as something that needs to be considered.
挽救母親生命的墮胎可以被視為需要考慮的情況。
However, it's not always necessary.
然而，那並不總是必要的。
But let's talk about the main thing,
但我們來談談主要的問題。
because there's over 1.5 million abortions every single year that don't involve rape, incest, or life in the mother.
因為每年有超過150萬起墮胎，其中不涉及強暴、亂倫或母親的生命。
Yeah. 5 million. Yeah.
對啊。五百萬。對。
But let's just ask you a very simple question.
但讓我問你一個很簡單的問題。
When does human life begin?
人的生命是從什麼時候開始的？
When does human life, in my personal opinion, is going to start around the second trimester, a little more farther along.
在我個人看來，人的生命大約從第二孕期開始，再往後一點。
But let's get to this.
但是，我們接著談這個吧。
Most individuals that are having abortions are going to be mothers that cannot afford it.
大多數進行墮胎的人都是那些無法負擔撫養孩子的母親。
They usually have already two to three kids and a lot of time.
她們通常已經有兩到三個孩子，而且要花很多時間照顧他們。
So it's acceptable to be able to murder your young if all of a sudden you don't have the money to support them.
所以，如果你突然沒有錢養小孩，那就可以殺害自己的孩子，這樣可以被接受嗎？
That you can murder your offspring if you're poor.
意思是，如果你窮，你就可以謀殺自己的後代。
So in the first couple weeks, even though it's still not fully developed, does it even have a heartbeat, does it even have connectivity?
那在前幾週的時候，即使還沒完全發育，它有心跳嗎？它有神經連結嗎？
Development does not equal dignity.
生命的發育階段不等於尊嚴。
A human being is a human being regardless of the process of development that it is in, period.
一個人就是一個人，不論他正處於哪個發育階段，就是這樣而已。
And so who's trying to take rights away?
所以，到底是誰想要剝奪權利？
I actually want more human beings to work.
其實我希望有更多人能活下來。
Hold on, we're talking.
等一下，我們還在討論這部分。
Let me finish on abortion.
讓我把墮胎這部分講完。
I want more human lives, which by the way, hilariously, would be more women would actually would be born,
我希望有更多人誕生。而且順帶一提，有趣的是，這其實會讓更多女性出生，
because the right to life is paramount.
因為生存權是最基本的權利。
You're trying to take rights away because you're okay with the massacring of little humans.
你正在試圖剝奪權利，是因為你能接受屠殺那些小生命。
Back to LGBT.
回到LGBT。
It's been going throughout history though.
但這件事在歷史上一再發生。
Abortion has been a big thing for a long time and it affects people and it hurts people.
墮胎這議題存在很久了，它影響人，也傷害人。
So, as murder and slavery and child sacrifice, there's been.
所以，就像謀殺、奴隸制與獻祭孩童一樣，一直存在過。
That's completely different.
那完全不同。
No, it is murder.
不，那就是謀殺。
Okay, so let me ask you a question then. Define what is murder.
好，那讓我問你一個問題，請定義什麼是謀殺。
Are you going to be talking about first-degree murder, like homicide, like going and having the intent to kill, having the intent to kill somebody,
你是要講一級謀殺那種嗎？像是蓄意殺人，有意圖去殺害某個人，
but I'm just saying a clump of cells.
但我只是表達一下，那不過是一團細胞。
Yeah, but a clump of cells is different.
對，但一團細胞是不一樣的。
Well, hold on, time out. If it's a clump of cells, what species is it?
等一下，暫停一下。如果那是一團細胞，那它屬於什麼物種？
What species is it?
它是哪個物種？
What species? It depends.
是什麼物種？這要看情況。
Whatever's going to be pregnant, whatever you're trying to make more of.
任何會懷孕的生物，或是你正試著繁衍的生物。
Is it a homo sapien, a crocodile, or a raccoon?
那它是智人、鱷魚，還是浣熊？
Which one is it? What species is it?
是哪一種？是哪個物種？
Oh, wait, so if it's a human clump of cells, then it's a human life deserving of human rights.
喔，等一下，所以如果那是一團人類細胞，那它就是人類生命，值得擁有人的權利。
And the first right is life.
而第一項權利就是生存。
And so you could call it a clump of cells, which is dehumanizing language.
所以你可以稱它為一團細胞，但那是去人化的語言。
Ironically, you're the one that is actually intruding on human rights.
諷刺的是，真正侵犯人權的人是你。
We're the one protecting human rights.
而我們是在保護人權。
But you're trying to get rid of the options so people can have rights to their own body.
但你卻想消除選擇的權利，讓人不能擁有自己身體的權利。
If someone does not want to have a child, they should not be forced to.
如果有人不想要孩子，他就不應被強迫去生。
Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
喔，等等，等等，先等等。
If we're going to be doing this, what are you going to do about the children in the systems that have been assaulted, that are being herded?
如果我們要這樣談，那你要怎麼看待那些在制度裡、遭受侵犯或被迫害的孩子？
Put more money into the system so people can actually get adopted or actually other things like that.
應該投入更多資金在制度裡，讓人們真的能被收養，或能有其他替代方案。
Again, none of that is relevant.
再說一次，那完全無關。
No, because you want more babies to be born.
不對，因為你希望有更多嬰兒出生。
They have to go into systems.
他們得進入收養系統。
How many people are on the adoption waiting list?
有多少人正在等著收養？
Yeah. Want to know how many kids that go into the system or are in foster care get assaulted or hurt?
是啊。你知道有多少進入收養系統或寄養家庭的孩子被侵犯或受傷嗎？
Are you going to be helping those children that get over by this system?
那你會幫助那些被這個制度傷害的孩子嗎？
So, there are two million people on the adoption waiting list.
那麼，目前有兩百萬人正在排隊等著收養孩子。
There are a million abortions every year.
而每年有一百萬起墮胎。
There are twice as many people that want to adopt than discarded children every single year.
每年想收養孩童的人數，是被遺棄孩童的兩倍。
Now I have to go back to a fundamental question, though, which I think is very important.
但我得回到一個根本性的問題，我覺得這非常重要。
Human development objectively begins at conception.
從客觀角度看，人類發展始於受孕。
You say it's around two trimesters.
而你說是在第二孕期左右。
Can we agree that every human being, once your DNA is formed, you should have the right to life, the right to live the life the way you want to live it?
那我們能否同意，每一個人，一旦你的DNA形成，你就應該有生存的權利，有權過自己想要的生活？
Can we agree on that?
我們能同意這點嗎？
How many weeks are we saying?
我們是在說多少週呢？
No, I say again, once we…
不，我再說一次，一旦我們…
So like once the sperm is inside the egg.
也就是當精子進入卵子時。
Correct. Yeah. No. No.
正確，是的。不，不對。
Once the sperm is inside the egg in the first like couple of days. No.
一旦精子進入卵子後，在最初的幾天內…不是這樣的。
Well, okay, but let's go through that.
好吧，那我們仔細談談。
Isn't that when your DNA was formed? Yeah.
那不就是你DNA形成的時刻嗎？是啊。
But then aren't you fundamentally at its core, you are the DNA is your blueprint for your life.
那從根本上來說，DNA就是你生命的藍圖。
That's who you are. It's a unique marker.
那就是你。它是你獨特的標記。
Yes, so if it's not your DNA, why is it your choice?
對啊，那如果那不是你的DNA，為什麼那是你的選擇？
Yes, if it's not your DNA, why do you have a choice to eliminate it?
對啊，如果那不是你的DNA，你為什麼可以選擇把它消除？
It's up to the individual that is having them inside of it.
那取決於那個體內懷著它的人。
It's their body, I don't care if it is like a few weeks because that is not a human being life yet.
那是她的身體，我不在乎那是幾週，因為那還不算一個人的生命。
Outside of rape – Because that individual cannot survive without the mother or who is ever pregnant, therefore.
除了強暴的情況之外…因為那個生命若離開母體或孕者，就無法生存。
Again, so let's get down to this because I think it's very important and a good way to end this question which is outside of rape.
那我們就談清楚這點吧，因為我覺得這非常重要，而且是結束這個問題的好方式，也就是排除強暴的情況。
How did the woman get pregnant?
女人是怎麼懷孕的？
Outside of rape, so we're not going to be talking about incest or other individuals like that, because incest is not only just rape, but for other situations.
除了強暴之外，所以我們不討論亂倫或其他情況，因為亂倫不僅是強暴，也有其他因素。
If I – how about if I say – how about if I say – Or, let's talk about how things get mixed up, how about that?
如果我，我說呢，我這樣說如何…或者，我們談談那些被搞混的事，好嗎？
How about if I say, I'm okay with abortion for rape, incest, and life of the mother.
如果我這樣說：我認同因強暴、亂倫與危及母親生命的墮胎。
Let's make it illegal in the other circumstances. Would you agree?
那就讓其他情況都屬於違法。你同意嗎？
How are we going to be able to determine that all the time, though?
但我們要怎麼每次都能判斷那件事呢？
Because what if it wasn't consensual?
因為如果那不是自願的呢？
What if that individual was drunk, but they're married and they got raped?
如果那個人喝醉了，但她已婚，結果被強暴了呢？
Again, you keep on interrupting me, but you can report rape as a crime.
再說一次，你一直打斷我，但強暴是可以報案的犯罪。
You can also do a blood test to find out if it's incest.
你也可以做血液檢測，確認是否是亂倫的情況。
But 99.9% of all abortions are not rape and not incest and not life of the mother.
但99.9%的墮胎案件都不是因為強暴、也不是亂倫或是母親有生命危險。
How did that woman get pregnant in those situations?
那個女人在那些情況下是怎麼懷孕的呢？
Did she just walk through campus and it just appeared and all of a sudden a baby is in her uterus?
她是走在校園裡，然後突然之間，子宮裡就出現了一個嬰兒嗎？
Or did she do something to decide to potentially have a child?
還是她做了某種選擇，導致可能會懷孕？
Sex. But also contraceptives sometimes don't always work. Oh, okay, got it.
性行為啊。但避孕有時也不是總會成功。喔，好，我懂了。
So, but hold on a second.
好，但等一下。
Shouldn't you take responsibility for your orgasms?
那你不該為自己的高潮負責嗎？
I don't think most men can make me cum. I'm going to be honest.
我覺得大多數男人都沒辦法讓我高潮。我要老實說。
Oh, okay. Well, again, outside of that statement, I'm not even sure how to take that, to be honest.
喔，好吧。不過，撇開那句話不談，老實說，我都不知道該怎麼回。
You brought up orgasms.
是你先提到高潮的。
Okay, shouldn't you take responsibility for the sex that you have?
好，那你不該為你進行的性行為負責嗎？
I mean, if I was wanting to have a child and my contraceptives, I didn't use any contraceptives and I wanted to get pregnant,
我的意思是，如果我想要孩子，而且我沒使用任何避孕措施，那我想懷孕。
sure, I'm taking responsibility for that life because I wanted that life.
當然，我會為那條生命負責，因為那是我想要的。
But let's say I was used having sex and my contraceptives didn't work and I got the chance of getting pregnant.
但假設我只是發生性行為，結果避孕失敗，我有可能懷孕。
I am not having that child.
那我不會留下那個孩子。
So, but you still decided to have sex. Yeah.
所以，但你還是決定去做愛了。對啊。
And again, our opinion, when you go and decide, having sex is not something you need to survive.
再說一次，我們的觀點是：做愛並不是生存所需的東西。
It's not like showering or eating or shelter.
它不像洗澡、吃飯或住屋那樣。
You can live without having sex.
你沒有做愛也能活下去。
You can have a little bit of self-control.
你可以有一點自制力。
If you decide to go have sex, you should understand you play certain games, you win certain prizes, which might be another human life.
如果你決定去做愛，你就該明白，玩某些遊戲，就會贏得某些獎品，那可能是一個新的生命。
And it is the most – I don't want to fuck up another child, though.
而且這是最…但我不想再害了另一個孩子。
Hold on a second.
等一下。
Then don't go have sex. No.
那就別去做愛。不行。
Oh, so you understand how narcissistic that is, that I want to keep on having fun.
喔，所以你明白這有多自戀了吧？我只是想一直玩樂。
And if I have a human being, an oopsie daisy, I'm going to eliminate that other human being.
如果我懷孕了，「噢！不小心懷上」的那種，我就要去把那個生命弄掉。
Because I don't want to have the human being, but I want to keep on having free sex.
因為我不想要那個孩子，但我想繼續維持沒有束縛的性行為。
How is that not the most narcissistic worldview that one can possibly espouse?
那難道不是一種最自戀的世界觀嗎？
It's narcissistic that I want to have sex with another consenting individual just because I don't want to have children.
你說我想和另一個自願的人發生關係，只是因為我不想要孩子，這就叫自戀？
I feel like a lot of people in the world have sex.
我覺得世界上很多人都在做愛啊。
I think a lot of people make money off of having sex and they don't want to have children.
我認為很多人靠做愛賺錢，而且他們也不想要孩子。
I feel like it is something that everybody do.
我覺得這是大家都會做的事。
A lot of people have sex just for pleasure.
很多人只是為了快感而做愛。
Again, just because a lot of people do it does not make it right, number one.
但再說一次，就算很多人這麼做，也不代表那是對的。
Number two, again, fundamentally, your view is I'm going to do whatever I want to do.
其次，根本上，你的觀點是：我想做什麼就做什麼。
If it creates other human beings, so be it. Sure.
要是會生出其他人，那就這樣吧。好啊。
Do you have sex just to have a baby every single time then?
那你每次做愛都是為了生孩子嗎？
Or are you doing it for pleasure?
還是為了快感？
I am married and we have two kids, too. So, we're pretty good at it.
我已婚，也有兩個孩子。所以，我們還不錯。
I'm assuming that you have had sex more than twice in your life.
我猜你這輩子做愛不只兩次吧。
Again, I'm not going to give you an inside look into my sex life. But –
我不打算讓你窺探我的性生活，但是…
But you're doing it for pleasure, not just to have kids.
但你也是為了快感，不只是為了生孩子。
Well, again, we actually always do it with God's trust that if we get kids, it's a blessing, okay?
嗯，其實我們每次都帶著信仰去做，如果有孩子，那是上帝的祝福，好嗎？
And we do it in the marital context.
而且我們是在婚姻的框架裡進行的。
You also are in a position where you can afford to have children.
你也處在一個能夠負擔養育孩子的狀況下。
You are in a position where you are not the lower class.
你不是底層階級的人。
How about this? How about we have the maturity and the sophistication?
那這樣如何？我們試著有點成熟與理性，好嗎？
Again, you keep on using words children and baby.
你一直用孩子與嬰兒這些詞彙。
Let me ask you a question.
讓我問你一個問題。
When someone is celebrating a pregnancy, do they call it a clump of cell shower or a baby shower?
當有人慶祝懷孕時，他們叫那活動細胞團派對還是嬰兒派對？
That's also when it's already been past those weeks.
那是因為那時候已經超過那些週數了。
Oh, so it magically gets pixie dust.
喔，所以那時就被灑上魔法粉？
No, because it develops.
不是，因為它還在發展。
Oh, exactly, because it's all around the spectrum of human development, and human development starts at conception.
沒錯，這就是重點，那是人類發展的整個光譜，而人類發展從受孕那刻開始。
Yeah. Is it going to be completely developed that the first week? No.
是啊。那第一週就會完全發育嗎？不會。
You're not completely developed right now.
你現在也還沒完全發育啊。
A lot of people aren't completely developed.
很多人都還沒完全發育。
Because we're never going to be completely developed.
因為我們永遠不會完全發育。
It's like you are not completely developed at age 30 or 40.
就像你在30或40歲時，也還在成長發展。
The spectrum of human development keeps on going when you go deep and deep into your life.
人類的發展光譜會持續延伸，一直到人生的深處。
When does that journey begin?
那個旅程是從什麼時候開始的？
That journey begin like when did your process of development begin?
那個旅程，也就是你的發展過程，是什麼時候開始的？
My process of development?
我的發展過程？
Yes. Yeah.
對，沒錯。
At conception.
從受孕開始。
Every person in this audience, your life started at conception.
在場的每一個人，你的人生都是從受孕那一刻開始的。
And your own DNA from your eye color to your hair color to your height,
而你的DNA，從你的眼睛顏色、到你的頭髮顏色、到你的身高，
from your likes and your dislikes, whether you're an introvert, you're an extrovert,
到你的喜好、到你的厭惡、不論你是內向還是外向，
all of that was coded into your deoxyribonucleic acid at the moment that you were a zygote.
這一切都在你是受精卵的那一刻，就已經被編碼進你的DNA(脫氧核糖核酸)。
And so that human deserves constitutional and human rights.
所以那個生命應該擁有憲法與人權上的保障。
And again, you came up here with the accusation saying, I am here taking away people's rights. You are.
而你上來時指控我說，我是在剝奪人們的權利。你確實是。
Again. So I –
再說一次，所以我…
You are affecting LGBT rights and abortion rights.
你正在影響LGBT的權利以及墮胎權。
You are affecting individuals that can't always speak for themselves.
你正在影響那些無法為自己發聲的人。
Got it. So again, we, I think we have gone through this plenty of times.
了解。我們好像已經討論這個很多次了。
I want to get to the next question. Okay.
我想進入下一個問題。好啊。
But maybe, we can get, maybe we can get to some.
也許我們可以，也許我們可以稍微達成一點共識。
I'll burn it. You'll burn it? Okay.
我要燒掉它。你要燒掉它？隨你。
Maybe we can get to some approximation of an agreement.
也許我們可以達成某種程度的共識。
Can we agree? No.
我們可以達成共識嗎？不能。
Can we agree on?
那我們能在某方面達成共識嗎？
I will pray for you this Holy Week. Thank you for your time.
我會在這個聖週為你祈禱。感謝你的時間。
Please don't ever pray for me.
請不要為我祈禱。